# cglrrm
Rohan Athreya's CGLRRM Files

The following is a rundown of how I was able to create the simulations. Within the "Copula" folder, there is a subfolder containing the median output of the L2SWBM on the Great Lakes called "LS2WBM_med_1950-2022". The InputDataFormatting.R file reads in the csv files from this file to create a formatted csv file that can be fed into the copula. This file is 70 rows (one for every year between 1951 and 2020) and 225 columns (precipitation, evaporation, and runoff for lakes Erie, Ontario, Michigan-Huron, Superior, and St. Clair for 15 months (3 antecedent, 12 forecasted)). FittingAndSampling.R fits the copula model based on this formatted input, generates pseudo-samples from the resulting distribution with values ranging between 0 and 1, and uses the marginal distributions to translate these values into 1000 sequences of monthly NBS component values (P, E, and R). To carry out the climate change simulations, I have been using FitSampSimulation.R instead, in which the marginal distributions that are used to translate the pseudo-sample values into NBS component values have been altered based on how they are expected to change under different climate change scenarios. MatchingAndPlotting.R as it is currently configured takes one simulation from the 1000 that were generated that are generated and turns these NBS component values into monthly net NBS change values for each lake in the "Copula/output" folder. Next, within the "r_code" folder, the "input_file_structure.R" file formats these monthly net NBS change csv files into txt files that can be read by the CGLRRM, saving them to the input folder. 

The necessary software to run the CGLRRM varies based on software, but as someone with a Macbook, I was advised to download the Intel oneAPI Base Toolkit and HPC Toolkit, and using the associated command line tool app, I ran "ifort cglrrm_test" followed by the names of all of the Fortran files (in the main directory of this repository), which created an executable called "cglrrm_test.exe". Before running the executable, edit the "cglrrm_params.2008" file such that the pathnames to the input files in the first four lines are correct and the start and end dates match the simulation we want to assess. After running the executable, the output folder will contain .txt files with the water levels for the Great Lakes.

The data in the output folder within this repository is from previous runs of the data, and the fullplot.R file was used to create the summary plots for each simulation.
